# St Andrews Observatory Frontend

	Any queries related to development or deployment on this project should go to me@billytrend.com. I'd be happy to advise :).

## Summary

This is a 'static' front end for the project which loads up images and data from files that are generated by the back end module. These two moving parts are more or less decoupled ie, the frontend will run if the backend is broken and vice versa.

## Deployment guide

This project uses web development techniques which require it to be 'built'. Building is a simple process of converting 'development' files (the ones used during programming and development) to production files (those that are used when the website is live).

This repository includes a built version of the site so understanding building is not necessary for deployment but should be understood if changes need to be made. Instructions for the pre-built version are included below

The builds are found under pkg/ 

### Deploying pre-built version

1. Move the contents of pkg/ to the desired webserver path

### Building the site yourself

1. Install nodejs.

	http://nodejs.org/

2. Run `npm i` in the project root

3. Run `gulp`

4. Follow the instructions for the pre-built version above

## Development guide

All the source is in the src directory, the build is in the pkg directory. If you would like to make changes to the site, edit the files in the src directory, run `gulp` in the root of the project and the project will build. Remember to run `npm i` when you first clone the project in order to download the dependancies.

This project relies mainly on the following javascript technologies :

#### React

http://facebook.github.io/react/

This is an MVC library which ties a data structure to the html interface. This is neat because if you change the structure (ie the current image), it is reflected in the interface. Equally, if you interact with the interface (ie press next) the data structure can be updated.

#### Gulp

http://gulpjs.com/

This is a programme for defining build scripts. This project includes steps for converting the jsx files into javascript for react and moving files into the pkg directory.

